---
focus: src/main/java/com/epam/codingstory/rational/RationalNumbers.java
---

### Decomposition Story: Rational Numbers
That concludes the Decomposition Story: Rational Numbers.

You have seen an example of a relatively big all-in-one program that is hard to read and comprehend and requires to be extra cautious when introducing any new features.

Then we have decoupled it into smaller pieces of code, classes and methods. Each one of them is easier to understand, since it is isolated do not require keeping all the original program in mind.

That classes are also easier to enhance, refactor and fix. And it is quite easier to build a new feature from such small building blocks rather than trying to edit the whole original program at once.

One more important thing is that original program was only suitable for a single purpose. It was not reusable at all. But classes and methods we have introduced while decomposing allow to build other solutions. For instance, we could create a program that reads a bunch of rational numbers from a file and sum them all and send the result by e-mail, using the same [_RationalNumber_](src/main/java/com/epam/codingstory/rational/RationalNumber.java) class. Or we could implement a program similar to an original one, but for complex numbers, using the same [_Conversation_](src/main/java/com/epam/codingstory/conversation/Conversation.java) and [_Command_](src/main/java/com/epam/codingstory/conversation/command/Command.java) classes.

Hopefully, now you better understand importance of decomposition and how to achieve it in practice.

### The end
